>> Jason Lengstorf: So we've got this, but
now how do we actually get
content into the pages?
Cuz if I click through this,
obviously we're not getting,
we're not seeing anything, there's no
pages yet, so we need to fix that.
To fix that, we're going to get
into programmatic page generation.
And we do that by creating a new file, so
let me make this a little bit bigger here.
>> Jason Lengstorf: We're gonna come down
here, and next to our gatsby-config,
we're gonna add a new
file called gatsby-node.
And this is where you can start to
see that extending Gatsby works.
We expose a node set of APIs, a browser
set of APIs and then some APIs for
server-side rendering,
each of those is named gatsby-thing.
So gatsby-node,
gatsby-browser, gatsby-ssr.
Inside of those,
you can export a function that is the same
name as one of the hooks that we look for,
and we will do whatever you tell us
to do at that phase of the build.
So in our case, we wanna create pages, so
we're going to use exports.createPages.
And because we're gonna load data,
we're gonna make this an async function.
And then we're gonna need
some stuff out of Gatsby.
So Gatsby's gonna give us a couple
utility methods that we can use.
We get a whole bundle of actions,
and then we get a GraphQL helper.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And then I'm
also gonna grab the reporter in case
we need to put something
out to the console.
So this is Gatsby's kind
of internal console log.
And it prevents you from having to use
console log, and also add some styling and
will do things like
hook into telemetry and
give you the ability to
do some extra stuff.
We're not gonna get deep into that
because it's pretty advanced, but
just know that it's there.
So what we can do now that we've
got these actions in the GraphQL,
I'm gonna just make a GraphQL query.
I want to get,
the result of this query is going to
be what I get from
awaiting the graphql call.
And my graphql call,
now notice this time, it's a function.
We're not using it as a template literal,
this is a function.
This is a Node interface, which is
different from the React interface.
So it's a subtle difference,
it trips people up sometimes.
Just know that when you're in gatsby-node,
this graphql is in deed a function call.
Inside of it, I wanna run a query.
And the query that I want is
to get all these mdx files.
And inside of the nodes,
I want the frontmatter.
And I'm gonna get the slug.
And if you're wondering why I'm only
getting the slug when I'm about to
create these pages, it's because we don't
necessarily want to have to load all of
the content and
then shove that content into a component.
Instead, we want to create these pages and
then have the pages query for
the data that they want.
You wanna co-locate the data queries where
it's used as opposed to having these kind
of pass along things where
you load data here and
then you just have to know when
you're editing that component that,
if you wanna touch that data,
you have to go to gatsby-node.
It creates magic references.
And it gets kind of tricky, so
we wanna minimize those as much as we can.
So once we've got our results,
we're going to check and
make sure that we got what we needed.
This is gonna matter less when you're
doing local files because they're unlikely
to break.
But as you start using third party
sources, APIs that could be down,
something that might rate limit you, or
be missing an API key, you wanna make
sure that you're checking for errors.
And what I'm gonna do in this
case is that I'm gonna panic.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And so
we will say that we failed to create post,
if we get here, and
then we'll just add the errors.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And what panic does
is it prints out an error and stops
the Gatsby build and tells you what went
wrong so that you have a chance to fix it.
>> Jason Lengstorf: If we get
past the result.errors.errors,
then we're able to assume that we've got
our post and things worked as expected.
So I'm gonna go in, and
I'm going to the result,
I'm gonna get the data out of it and
then allMdx and nodes.
And so this is my post object,
which is going to contain
my frontmatter of the slug.
Then I can posts.forEach,
and that'll give me a post.
And I'm using forEach versus map because
we're not returning anything here.
So this is just a side effect and we
don't necessarily want to return a value.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Inside, I'm gonna
use that actions object, and there's one
called createPage, which is singular,
and this one takes three arguments.
The first one is the path, and
that's where we want it to live.
I want this to live at the slug, so
I'm gonna do post.frontmatter.slug.
The next is a component.
So we need to tell it
what component to use.
The same as we told MDX
So we haven't actually built
that component yet, so
we're gonna need to do that.
For now,
>> Jason Lengstorf: We can just
placeholder that.
We need to do that.
And then finally, is some context.
And we'll look at this in a minute,
but what I wanna send is the slug.
And the slug that I'm going
to send is gonna be wrapped
in,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Forward slashes
is the word I was looking for.
It's gonna be wrapped in forward slashes,
and
we'll talk about why once we get to it.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So
all right, here we are.
>> Jason Lengstorf: We have this thing
that's gonna create pages for us, but
we're missing a component.
So let's go ahead and
create that component.
A convention that I like is to create
a new folder called templates for
this, and I'm going to call it post.
>> Jason Lengstorf: If I can find it.
>> Jason Lengstorf: post.js, and in here,
we're going to style this thing out.
So we've got import React from 'react'.
We're gonna import {
graphql } from 'gatsby'.
We're going import the MDX,
well, let's do that in a minute.
Let's import  from '@emotion core'.
We're going to import our layout,
cuz we wanna keep that consistent feel.
So we're gonna go '../components/layout'.
And then I also want to use the read-link.
>> Jason Lengstorf:
'../components/read-link'.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And so
now I can set up my template.
So I'm gonna set up a PostTemplate.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And that is going
to eventually receive some props, but
we're not quite there yet,
so we can set it up.
Let's set up our Layout.
Inside of our Layout,
I want to use post title,
then we're going to show who wrote it.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
I'm just scaffolding this out so
that we can see what it looks like.
And then we'll figure out
how to actually show it.
Then, here,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Post body goes here.
And then finally, we'll set up
a ReadLink back to the homepage.
And we'll just use the left arrow HTML
entity and say back to all posts.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So
this is gonna work out kind of okay.
This Posted by author,
we want that to be styled up.
So let's add a couple styles here.
And all I'm really gonna
do is just make it small.
So I'm gonna do font-size is 0.75rem.
And that puts us pretty
close to where we wanna be.
So let's export default PostTemplate.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So now if I come
back here and I wanna set this up,
I can use the required.resolve and
get to that post.
So I'm gonna go to
the ./src/templates/post.js.
And now what we should see is that
it's gonna generate a page for
each post that we've created.
So let's go in here,
I'm gonna stop and restart the server.
Whenever you change gatsby-node API,
it's going to require a stop and restart.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay, so we're built,
we're getting a linter error because we we
set up GraphQL but haven't used it yet.
So now if I click through,
>> Jason Lengstorf: We're
getting our post.
So we do see a post, but, I mean,
obviously this is all hard coded data.